hey how's it going Dave 2d here so this
is a laptop with Nvidia's new max-q
design specifically the Asus GX 5:01 and
well here's the thing for years ever
since like gaming laptops existed people
have been trying to find that perfect
balance between power and portability
and honestly it doesn't really exist
because when you have a gaming laptop
it's usually thick or loud or thick and
loud until now in videos max-q approach
is an approach to building a laptop this
thin and quiet and powerful basically
they're building the perfect laptop so
everything from the GPU to the drivers
to the thermal components the electrical
components everything is geared towards
this max-q approach and it's essentially
all about efficiency so first let's talk
about the GPU it's a GT X 1080 chip it
has all the CUDA cores all the memory
but it's clocked slower they've reduced
the clock speed a bit before this max-q
approach but the trade-off is a very
nice reduction in power consumption so
in terms of total wattage a regular GT X
1080 laptop will pull maybe 250 260
Watts under full load this laptop pulls
171 under full load and that's like a 90
watt difference which means smaller AC
adapters for portability and less heat
output and when you have less heat to
deal with you can make your laptops
thinner your fans don't need to work as
hard and on the ACU Sepphoris the bottom
actually opens up when you lift the
screen which allows for a better airflow
now this machine is running some very
early drivers but I was just curious to
see how we do for benchmarks the math Q
design Zephyrus is about 13 to 15
percent slower than a regular laptop GTX
1080 which is around what it expected
and it's about 10 maybe 12 percent
faster than a gtx 1070 laptop so it kind
of sits between the two in terms of just
brought performance but the thing is the
fans on this laptop are super quiet in
comparison to anything else on this
chart it's so weird to see this kind of
performance and something this quiet now
I wanted to focus on Nvidia's max Q
design for this video but because I've
been using this for a while I thought
I'd give it kind of like a mini review
the build quality is really good it's a
premium Asus device I think it's the
best-looking laptop that Asus has ever
made there's lots of brushed aluminum
great materials with just a
of gamer DNA it doesn't have any like
red racing stripes and stuff it has a
solid port selection for a 15-inch
laptop but there's no SD slot if you're
looking for one
the nvme drive inside is really fast its
upgradable but it's not easy to open it
up the thermals are comfortable when
playing games but max cube does limit
the thermal output automatically the
configuration of the top deck here is
obviously a little bit different they've
shifted the keyboard down to a better
component airflow it has customizable
backlighting and the keys have pretty
short travel it's very chiclet II I am
comfortable gaming on it but I don't
think it's ideal for typing a ton of
stuff now because it's positioned so
close to the bottom of the keyboard asus
includes a wrist rest I didn't find it
useful I mean I found it comfortable
enough to use without but everyone's
gonna be a little bit different the
trackpad / keypad I find it super cool
it switches between the two it uses
Windows precision drivers with good
tracking and when it's a number-pad mode
it's very accurate
it's obviously positioned a little weird
being on the side but I got used to it
quickly I am right-handed though the
speakers are pretty nice and because of
how quiet the system is even under load
you can totally rely on them for games
it has a 50 watt hour battery underneath
the keyboard and battery life is short
I'm getting three hours of battery life
with my regular tests but that's just
the nature of a thin and light high
performance laptop there's no more room
in there for a bigger battery so I
played a lot of games on this out first
and just crushes them at 1080p
with the g-sync panel games look super
smooth at 120 Hertz it's just a very
enjoyable gaming experience almost every
single first-person shooter is gonna
play really well in this system
open-world games tend to be a bit more
demanding but even those play pretty
well you won't be able to hit 120 frames
per second on every open-world game at
max graphics but if you reduce it to
high the screen can show off that sweet
refresh rate again video editing is also
awesome on this laptop a lot of laptops
with high-end CPUs and high-end GPUs can
be loud and premiere because that's just
the way video editing is it's CPU
intensive its GPU intensive but with a
max Q laptop it's quiet but you still
get kickass performance the other thing
is that the Zephyrus is low-key enough
to use in a library or a coffee shop if
you want to go out there and you want to
play some games no one would bat an eye
these laptops are so quiet and
unassuming the max Q approach to laptop
design obviously isn't for everyone some
people don't care about how thin their
laptops are some people don't care about
how loud their fans are they just want
pure performance and for those people
the full-fat GT X 1080 laptops a little
bit thick but those will deliver great
performance better performance than this
but if you're looking for thin and light
and powerful and quiet
Nvidia max Q delivers this thing is
seriously laptop dream material
[Music]